You definitely can just go ahead and
use node alpine,
it's 80 megabytes which is nothing, for
your production projects, always do that.
Now we're gonna be dumb and we're gonna go
make our own node alpine image because I
wanna show you how to do it,
how to set up all these different things.
So, what we're actually gonna try and
do is we're gonna try and
get that 80 megabytes down even further so
you can get down to 50 megabytes.
Let's do it.
Let's be ridiculous.
So we're still in alpine-linux here,
we're in 12-alpine right here.
And what I want you to do instead
of saying node 12-alpine,
I want you to say alpine:3.10.
So, if I come in here and
say docker inspect alpine:3.10,
this is way easier if
I just colorize that.
You can see here,
this is in bytes maybe, so,
yeah, this is five point
six-ish megabytes.
Pretty small, right?
That's significantly smaller than the 80
that we had coming from our other
application from node alpine, and it just
includes some more node nicety stuff
like some good idea stuff that
you're probably gonna want on there.
Just include some of the stuff like that,
which for the most part you're gonna want.
The node source people and
the near form is the other company
that works on these kinda things.
Take pretty good care to make sure
that these are as small as possible.
So, trust them because they're probably
better at docker than maybe you are,
I'm not gonna say that, but
they're definitely better than I am.
And if you're for
whatever reason listening to me,
so let me proxy that goodwill to them.
Or maybe you don't like me, I don't know,
then you can hate them too.
So, we're gonna do from alpine:3.10 here,
and what we're gonna
do is we're gonna say RUN apk which
is the name of the package manager,
not Android stuff,
if you're coming from Android.
APK is the Alpine Package Manager.
Add, I'm gonna say --update me which just
means run updates first before you, make
sure you're getting the latest versions
of these, and get nodejs and get npm.
Now we could tie this to versions, for
now I'm just gonna show
you how to do it this way.
Cool and for now I think that's actually
all we need to do to get all this running,
I don't think we need to do anything else.
And let's try this again.
We have to run a build.
So it's actually able to do this
pretty quickly it looks like.
And again, this probably should be
enough that if we took a look at it.
Let's just do my-node-app.
Right there.
We're up to about 85.
I guess that sounds about right.
So let's actually just restart
this entire Docker file.
All right.
So we just add the FROM alpine:3.10,
RUN apk, node npm and
we're gonna run this again.
And now, if we inspect, take a look at
what this is, so this ends up being,
there you go, about 50 megabytes.
Just to get Alpine and NodeJs and
NPM, all on the same box.
Now, Alpine by default, doesn't
necessarily have the node user installed.
That was something that the node
distribution is doing for us,
so we have to do that for ourselves,
so we're gonna do RUN addgroup-S.
Again, this is something I
could never remember by myself.
I always have to Google,
how do I add user to LINUX.
I don't know,
it's just never something I can remember.
So we're gonna just copy their best
practices and we're gonna add a user
called node and we're going to add
user -S node, and in the group node.
So now, this has added a user called node.
And here we can say USER node.
And here we can say build.
Did I miss one?
Adduser, sorry.
Adduser right there.
This was saying add not found.
It's adduser.
All right, now try it again.
There we go.
Now if I say, node app right there, and
I say whoamI, should say node, cool.
>> Brian, where did you specify what
version of node do you wanna get?
>> So, I didn't,
here you would do it with apk.
Just for now we're not gonna worry about
it cuz this is something that you would
never really do.
But we can see what version it is.
So we can say node-- version.
Hopefully it's 12, no, it's 10.
And I think there is some nomenclature for
this, you would say like,
at 10.16 or something like that.
I am not actually sure.
But it would be in there.
Again this is from Alpine, so
I don't know Alpine at all.
So, Now is wherever you wanna go back and
add all of our stuff back that we
had before which is USER node,
RUN mkdir /home/node/code.
Then you wanna do WORKDIR /home/node/code,
COPY chown node node pack.
I mean, you can literally copy this
from the last one that we used to have,
package lock.json package.json.
I'm gonna copy that to ./.
Then we're going to RUN npm CI.
As you can see here,
whitespace is totally arbitrary.
And I have no good reason for
any of it that I'm doing right now.
And I'm saying COPY --chown node:node,
and.
to copy everything else
into the same directory.
I'm going to say CMD node index.js.
So, let's go back and build this again.
And let's run it.
So the link.
There we go, still running but
with a Alpine container that we're
continuing to build ourselves.
So all said and done, to see if we
actually saved yourself any space,
I'm not actually sure we did.
Docker inspect my-node-app.
Pipe to jq to get some colors
because it's a lot easier to read.
There you go.
So we got down to about 56 megabytes-ish.
We can go lower.
[LAUGH]